README.md, before:

[![cibuildwheel](https://github.com/lyckantropen/psnr_hvsm/actions/workflows/build_wheels.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lyckantropen/psnr_hvsm/actions)
[![python_versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/psnr_hvsm)](https://pypi.org/project/psnr-hvsm/)
[![pypi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/psnr_hvsm)](https://pypi.org/project/psnr-hvsm/)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lyckantropen/psnr_hvsm)](https://github.com/lyckantropen/psnr_hvsm/blob/main/LICENSE)

# psnr_hvsm

Accelerated Python package for computing several image metrics based on human
perception.

This is an implementation of the PSNR-HVS, PSNR-HVS-M, PSNR-HA and PSNR-HMA
metrics developed by [Nikolay
Ponomarenko](http://www.ponomarenko.info/psnrhvsm).

The values produced by this library have been cross-checked against the results
within the [TID2013
dataset](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596514001490).
(See the folder [`tid2013_results`](tid2013_results).) The only difference is
that this library follows the common convention that PSNR for identical signals
equals 100.0.

_A miniscule discrepancy for PSNR-HMA (<0.01dB on average) is under investigation._

## Bibliography

* [Egiazarian, Karen, et al. "New full-reference quality metrics based on HVS." Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on Video Processing and Quality Metrics. Vol. 4. 2006.](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Vladimir_Lukin2/publication/251229783_A_NEW_FULL-REFERENCE_QUALITY_METRICS_BASED_ON_HVS/links/0046351f669a9c1869000000.pdf)
* [Ponomarenko, Nikolay, et al. "On between-coefficient contrast masking of DCT basis functions." Proceedings of the third international workshop on video processing and quality metrics. Vol. 4. 2007.](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Vladimir-Lukin-4/publication/242309240_On_between-coefficient_contrast_masking_of_DCT_basis_functions/links/0c96052442be7c3176000000/On-between-coefficient-contrast-masking-of-DCT-basis-functions.pdf)
* [Ponomarenko, Nikolay, et al. "Modified image visual quality metrics for contrast change and mean shift accounting." 2011 11th International Conference The Experience of Designing and Application of CAD Systems in Microelectronics (CADSM). IEEE, 2011.](https://ponomarenko.info/papers/psnrhma.pdf)

## Installation

`psnr_hvsm` supports Python 3.6-3.9. Packages are distributed on PyPi. Be sure
to have an up-to-date pip to be able to install the correct packages on Linux:

```bash
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

```bash
pip install psnr_hvsm
```

## Usage

### Command line

Command line support is an extra that pulls `imageio`:

```bash
pip install psnr_hvsm[command_line]
```

```bash
python -m psnr_hvsm original.png distorted.png
```

### As a library

The function `psnr_hvs_hvsm` accepts images as single-channel floating-point
NumPy arrays. The images need to be normalised, i.e. the values need to be in
the range `[0,1]`. This can be achieved by converting the image to `float` and
dividing by the maximum value given the bit depth. For 8 bits per component
this is 255.

The images must be padded to a multiple of 8 in each dimension.

```python
from imageio import imread
from psnr_hvsm import psnr_hvs_hvsm

image1 = imread('tests/baboon.png').astype(float) / 255
image2 = imread('tests/baboon_msk.png').astype(float) / 255

psnr_hvs, psnr_hvsm = psnr_hvs_hvsm(image1, image2)

print(psnr_hvs, psnr_hvsm)
```

```bash
34.427054505764424 51.64722121999962
```

If you need to measure PSNR-HVS and PSNR-HVS-M on an RGB image, you need to
convert it to an YUV colorspace and pass in only the luma component.

### Computing metrics for the TID2013 dataset

If you have a copy of the [TID2013
dataset](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596514001490),
you can re-verify the metrics for yourself:

```bash
python -m psnr_hvsm.tid2013_metrics D:\tid2013\ .\tid2013_results\
```

### Other exported functions

* `psnr_hvs` - returns only the PSNR-HVS value
* `psnr_hvsm` - returns only the PSNR-HVS-M value
* `hvs_mse_tile` - compute the weighted MSE of two 8x8 tiles
* `hvsm_mse_tile` - compute the weighted MSE with masking correction of two 8x8 tiles
* `hvs_mse` - compute HVS scores on all 8x8 tiles in the images, returns an array of numbers
* `hvsm_mse` - compute HVS-M scores on all 8x8 tiles in the images, returns an array of numbers

## Building

### Dependencies

`psnr_hvsm` has several dependencies:

* [FFTW3 >= 3.3.9](http://www.fftw.org/)
* [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11)
* [xtensor](https://github.com/xtensor-stack/xtensor)
* [xtensor-python](https://github.com/xtensor-stack/xtensor-python)

All of the above can be automatically resolved by running `deps.ps1`, which is
a cross-platform PowerShell script (i.e. it can also be run under Linux if you
have PowerShell installed).

### Development mode

To install in development mode:

```bash
pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt
```

### Creating Python wheel

```bash
pip install --upgrade -r requirements-build.txt
python setup.py bdist_wheel
```

### Running tests on different versions of Python using tox

```bash
pip install --upgrade -r requirements-tox.txt
tox --parallel auto
```

Commit message:

Add Python 3.10 and 3.11
Fix yml

Remove 3.6-3.7

Add 3.7 back

Cleanups

Reinstate deps scripts

Remove conda from actions

Conda deps

aaa

install wget

force yes on conda

more deps

deps

more deps

More deps

more deps

more deps

more deps

msi cmake

md

GLIBC 2.28

fefefef

ergergerg

Install FFTW3 with CMake FetchContent

efefef

effeef

rgerge

asdaasd

efefefeffe

static fftw3

PIC

dupa

ccccc

Aasdasd

qfqffqe

efw

wef

Disable OpenMP on MSVC

Remove unnecessary debug message

Update gitignore

README.md, after:

[![cibuildwheel](https://github.com/lyckantropen/psnr_hvsm/actions/workflows/build_wheels.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lyckantropen/psnr_hvsm/actions)
[![python_versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/psnr_hvsm)](https://pypi.org/project/psnr-hvsm/)
[![pypi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/psnr_hvsm)](https://pypi.org/project/psnr-hvsm/)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lyckantropen/psnr_hvsm)](https://github.com/lyckantropen/psnr_hvsm/blob/main/LICENSE)

# psnr_hvsm

Accelerated Python package for computing several image metrics based on human
perception.

This is an implementation of the PSNR-HVS, PSNR-HVS-M, PSNR-HA and PSNR-HMA
metrics developed by [Nikolay
Ponomarenko](http://www.ponomarenko.info/psnrhvsm).

The values produced by this library have been cross-checked against the results
within the [TID2013
dataset](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596514001490).
(See the folder [`tid2013_results`](tid2013_results).) The only difference is
that this library follows the common convention that PSNR for identical signals
equals 100.0.

_A miniscule discrepancy for PSNR-HMA (<0.01dB on average) is under investigation._

## Bibliography

* [Egiazarian, Karen, et al. "New full-reference quality metrics based on HVS." Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on Video Processing and Quality Metrics. Vol. 4. 2006.](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Vladimir_Lukin2/publication/251229783_A_NEW_FULL-REFERENCE_QUALITY_METRICS_BASED_ON_HVS/links/0046351f669a9c1869000000.pdf)
* [Ponomarenko, Nikolay, et al. "On between-coefficient contrast masking of DCT basis functions." Proceedings of the third international workshop on video processing and quality metrics. Vol. 4. 2007.](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Vladimir-Lukin-4/publication/242309240_On_between-coefficient_contrast_masking_of_DCT_basis_functions/links/0c96052442be7c3176000000/On-between-coefficient-contrast-masking-of-DCT-basis-functions.pdf)
* [Ponomarenko, Nikolay, et al. "Modified image visual quality metrics for contrast change and mean shift accounting." 2011 11th International Conference The Experience of Designing and Application of CAD Systems in Microelectronics (CADSM). IEEE, 2011.](https://ponomarenko.info/papers/psnrhma.pdf)

## Installation

`psnr_hvsm` supports Python 3.7-3.11. Packages are distributed on PyPi. Be sure
to have an up-to-date pip to be able to install the correct packages on Linux:

```bash
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

```bash
pip install psnr_hvsm
```

## Usage

### Command line

Command line support is an extra that pulls `imageio`:

```bash
pip install psnr_hvsm[command_line]
```

```bash
python -m psnr_hvsm original.png distorted.png
```

### As a library

The function `psnr_hvs_hvsm` accepts images as single-channel floating-point
NumPy arrays. The images need to be normalised, i.e. the values need to be in
the range `[0,1]`. This can be achieved by converting the image to `float` and
dividing by the maximum value given the bit depth. For 8 bits per component
this is 255.

The images must be padded to a multiple of 8 in each dimension.

```python
from imageio import imread
from psnr_hvsm import psnr_hvs_hvsm

image1 = imread('tests/baboon.png').astype(float) / 255
image2 = imread('tests/baboon_msk.png').astype(float) / 255

psnr_hvs, psnr_hvsm = psnr_hvs_hvsm(image1, image2)

print(psnr_hvs, psnr_hvsm)
```

```bash
34.427054505764424 51.64722121999962
```

If you need to measure PSNR-HVS and PSNR-HVS-M on an RGB image, you need to
convert it to an YUV colorspace and pass in only the luma component.

### Computing metrics for the TID2013 dataset

If you have a copy of the [TID2013
dataset](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596514001490),
you can re-verify the metrics for yourself:

```bash
python -m psnr_hvsm.tid2013_metrics D:\tid2013\ .\tid2013_results\
```

### Other exported functions

* `psnr_hvs` - returns only the PSNR-HVS value
* `psnr_hvsm` - returns only the PSNR-HVS-M value
* `hvs_mse_tile` - compute the weighted MSE of two 8x8 tiles
* `hvsm_mse_tile` - compute the weighted MSE with masking correction of two 8x8 tiles
* `hvs_mse` - compute HVS scores on all 8x8 tiles in the images, returns an array of numbers
* `hvsm_mse` - compute HVS-M scores on all 8x8 tiles in the images, returns an array of numbers

## Building

### Dependencies

`psnr_hvsm` has several dependencies:

* [FFTW3 >= 3.3.9](http://www.fftw.org/)
* [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11)
* [xtensor](https://github.com/xtensor-stack/xtensor)
* [xtensor-python](https://github.com/xtensor-stack/xtensor-python)

All of the above can be automatically resolved by running `deps.ps1`, which is a
cross-platform PowerShell script (i.e. it can also be run under Linux if you
have PowerShell installed). Alternatively, you can create a `conda` environment
using the provided YAML file:

```bash
conda env create -f psnr_hvsm-dev.yml
```

### Development mode

To install in development mode:

```bash
pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt
```

### Creating Python wheel

```bash
pip install --upgrade -r requirements-build.txt
python setup.py bdist_wheel
```

### Running tests on different versions of Python using tox

```bash
pip install --upgrade -r requirements-tox.txt
tox --parallel auto
```
